---
layout: post
title: "Book List"
author: "James Bowden"
categories: bytes
tags: [hobbies]
image: library.jpg
---

*Who'd have expected that it would be difficult to find time to read during school? Anyhow, I'm trying to read whenever I have a chance, and hopefully I'll still be able to make time for this once school picks up. Book recommendations always appreciated!*

### Current:
* ***The Razor's Edge*, Maugham**. Recommended by Matt. I figure if somebody says something is their #1 book rec. it's worth a read, at the very least to better understand them.
* ***The Old Man and the Sea*, Hemingway**. It's funny how a certain literary style will put you in a certain frame of mind, and I appreciate the jaded, sort of rustic but simplistic feel that Hemingway gives off.
* ***The Possessed*, Dostoyevsky**. Going down the list of Dostoyevsky novels.
* ***King James Bible***. After reading way too many books with biblical allusions, I figured it was about time I got some context. 

### Recently Finished:
* ***The Sun Also Rises*, Hemingway**. It strikes me as both rather absurd and beautiful that people could (and can) simply go around in such a fashion and just live and take what life has to offer without putting up much in return. I should like to do so too, and then again, I suppose that's what money is for. Anyhow, the carefree and matter-of-fact attitude is refreshing.
* ***The Idiot*, Dostoyevsky**. This one wasn't the most satisfying read, though the characters were enjoyable. 
* ***The Brothers Karamazov*, Dostoyevsky**. A lot of really interesting questions of morality, suffering, self awareness, and religion here. Certainly made me think about what it is I'm doing with my life.
* ***The Martian*, Andy Weir**. I mean, Mars is cool, and so are Martian potatoes. But overall, meh. I am entertained that Caltech assigned this as our summer reading as some of us will likely be involved in future Mars missions, and probably still won't send a botanist.
* ***The Hyperion Cantos*, Dan Simmons**. I haven't been a huge fan of sci-fi for several years, but I thoroughly enjoyed this series. Great narrative, and a lot of arguably relevant parallels with AI and science as well as religion and politics. Perhaps the ending is a litttle cheesy.
* ***Great Expectations*, Dickens**. The plot doesn't strike me as terribly original, but I quite liked the character development and idiosyncrasies as well as the writing style. 
* ***A Farewell to Arms*, Hemingway**. Because life isn't sad enough already. I ought to read more Hemingway. I could fall for the way the words are strung together as much as the story itself.
