---
layout: post
title: "Book List"
author: "James Bowden"
categories: bytes
tags: []
image: library.jpg
---

*Who'd have expected that it would be difficult to find time to read during school? Anyhow, I'm trying to read whenever I have a chance, and hopefully I'll still be able to make time for this once school picks up. Book recommendations always appreciated!*

**Current:** 
* **Dostoyevsky's *The Possessed***
* ***King James Bible***. After reading way too many books with biblical allusions, I figured it was about time I got some context. 

**Recently Finished:**
* **Dostoyevsky's *The Idiot***. This one wasn't the most satisfying read, though the characters were enjoyable. 
* **Dostoyevsky's *The Brothers Karamazov***. A lot of really interesting questions of morality, suffering, self awareness, and religion here. Certainly made me question what it is I'm doing with my life.
* **Weir's *The Martian***. I mean, Mars is cool, and so are Martian potatoes. But overall, meh. I am entertained that Caltech assigned this as our summer reading as some of us will likely be involved in future Mars missions, and probably still won't send a botanist.
* **Simmons' *The Hyperion Cantos***. I haven't been a huge fan of sci-fi for several years, but I thoroughly enjoyed this series. Great narrative, and a lot of arguably relevant parallels with AI and science as well as religion and politics. Perhaps the ending is a litttle cheesy.
* **Dickens' *Great Expectations***. The plot doesn't strike me as terribly original, but I quite liked the character development and idiosyncrasies as well as the writing style. 
* **Hemingway's *A Farewell to Arms***. Because life isn't sad enough already. I ought to read more Hemingway.
