---
layout: post
title: "Book List"
author: "James Bowden"
categories: bytes
tags: [hobbies]
image: library.jpg
---

*Who'd have expected that it would be difficult to find time to read during school? Anyhow, I'm trying to read whenever I have a chance, and I'd like to continue once school picks up. I would say I read to learn and broaden my perspective, but the truth is more that I read to feel, and the former benefits seem to stem from the impressionability of emotion. Book recommendations are always appreciated!*

### Current:
* ***The Possessed*, Dostoyevsky**. Going down the list of Dostoyevsky novels. Been really busy but this one isn't drawing me in terribly well.
* ***King James Bible***. After reading way too many books with biblical allusions, I figured it was about time I got some context. I remember an english teacher at my high school being ridiculed for bringing the Bible into everything, and perhaps that was a little unfair.

### Up Next:
***The Divine Comedy, David Copperfield, To Kill a Mockingbird*** (again), ***...***

### Recently Finished:
* ***A Thousand Splendid Suns*, Hosseini**. It's difficult to fathom that this is, or even was, the reality of any living being. It makes me feel incredibly guilty and incredibly grateful. If everyone read more often, we'd all be more empathetic. A nice book to kick off the Fleming Book Club with.
* ***The Razor's Edge*, Maugham**. Recommended by Matt. This one was interesting and unsatisfying in a way, but also comforting in the understanding that life is quite unsatisfactory, and that embracing that makes it satisfactory enough. 
* ***The Old Man and the Sea*, Hemingway**. An ode to taking it as it comes, and being dreadfully obstinate.
* ***The Sun Also Rises*, Hemingway**. It strikes me as both rather absurd and beautiful that people could (and can) simply go around in such a fashion and just live and take what life has to offer without putting up much in return. I should like to do so too. Anyhow, the carefree and matter-of-fact attitude is refreshing.
* ***The Idiot*, Dostoyevsky**. This one wasn't the most satisfying read, though the characters were enjoyable. 
* ***The Brothers Karamazov*, Dostoyevsky**. A lot of really interesting questions of morality, suffering, self awareness, religion here and packaged into some very compelling characters (especially Alyosha!). Certainly made me think about what it is I'm doing with my life and my attitude toward others. One of my top recommendations.
* ***The Martian*, Andy Weir**. I mean, Mars is cool, and so are Martian potatoes. But overall, meh. I am entertained that Caltech assigned this as our summer reading as some of us will likely be involved in future Mars missions, and probably still won't send a botanist.
* ***The Hyperion Cantos*, Dan Simmons**. I haven't been a huge fan of sci-fi for several years, but I thoroughly enjoyed this series. Great narrative, and a lot of arguably relevant parallels with AI and science as well as religion and politics. Perhaps the ending is a litttle cheesy.
* ***Great Expectations*, Dickens**. The plot doesn't strike me as terribly original, but I quite liked the character development and idiosyncrasies as well as the writing style. 
* ***A Farewell to Arms*, Hemingway**. Because life isn't sad enough already. I ought to read more Hemingway. I could fall for the way the words are strung together alone.
