---
layout: post
title: "Book List"
author: "James Bowden"
categories: bytes
tags: [hobbies]
image: library.jpg
---

*Who'd have expected that it would be difficult to find time to read during college? Anyhow, I'm trying to read whenever I have a chance, and I'd like to continue even when school (and life) picks up. I would say I read to learn and broaden my perspective, but the truth is more that I read to feel, and the former benefits seem to stem from the impressionability of emotion. Book recommendations are always appreciated!*

### Current:
* ***Kafka on the Shore*, Murakami**. For Fleming book club; glad our book recommendations have tilted this way and have been more serious!
* ***The Brain from Inside Out*, Buzsaki**. For Neurotechers book club, excited to learn more about the brain!
* ***On Intelligence*, Hawkins**. For Neurotechers book club--promises to be a good read so far!
* ***King James Bible***. After reading way too many books with biblical allusions, I figured it was about time I got some context. I remember an english teacher at my high school being ridiculed for bringing the Bible into everything, and perhaps that was a little unfair.

### Up Next:
***The Divine Comedy, David Copperfield, To Kill a Mockingbird*** (again), ***...***
* ***Thinking Fast and Slow*, Kahneman**. I've heard about this one a few times and seems like an interesting nonfiction. 

### Recently Finished:

* ***The Little Prince*, Saint-Exupéry**. This book was good for the heart. Need I say more?
* ***Where the Crawdads Sing*, Owens**. I enjoyed this book, but thought that a lot of it was drawn out and a tad predictable. It felt like the author was trying to make me feel, which of course, makes me less inclined. It's good to expand to newer books though so thanks to Fleming Book Club again for introducing me.
* ***Slaughterhouse-Five*, Vonnegut**. A nice read and a nice attitude with lots of entertaining bits. It's interesting how one can write a good war story. I appreciate the absurdity that Vonnegut perpetuates--it makes me feel much more normal and at ease. 
* ***Little Fires Everywhere*, Ng**. Usually not my cup of tea, but well constructed in a way that was almost too predictable but good nonetheless. Honestly scares me a bit at the thought of my own affinity for planning and control and what that means for my future kids (?). Another recommendation from book club. 
* ***A Thousand Splendid Suns*, Hosseini**. It's difficult to fathom that this is, or even was, the reality of any living being. It makes me feel incredibly guilty and incredibly grateful. If everyone read more often, we'd all be more empathetic. A nice book to kick off the Fleming Book Club with.
* ***The Razor's Edge*, Maugham**. Recommended by Matt. This one was interesting and unsatisfying in a way, but also comforting in the understanding that life is quite unsatisfactory, and that embracing that makes it satisfactory enough. 
* ***The Old Man and the Sea*, Hemingway**. An ode to taking it as it comes, and being dreadfully obstinate.
* ***The Sun Also Rises*, Hemingway**. It strikes me as both rather absurd and beautiful that people could (and can) simply go around in such a fashion and just live and take what life has to offer without putting up much in return. I should like to do so too. Anyhow, the carefree and matter-of-fact attitude is refreshing.
* ***The Idiot*, Dostoyevsky**. This one wasn't the most satisfying read, though the characters were enjoyable. 
* ***The Brothers Karamazov*, Dostoyevsky**. A lot of really interesting questions of morality, suffering, self awareness, religion here and packaged into some very compelling characters (especially Alyosha!). Certainly made me think about what it is I'm doing with my life and my attitude toward others. One of my top recommendations.
* ***The Martian*, Andy Weir**. I mean, Mars is cool, and so are Martian potatoes. But overall, meh. I am entertained that Caltech assigned this as our summer reading as some of us will likely be involved in future Mars missions, and probably still won't send a botanist.
* ***The Hyperion Cantos*, Dan Simmons**. I haven't been a huge fan of sci-fi for several years, but I thoroughly enjoyed this series. Great narrative, and a lot of arguably relevant parallels with AI and science as well as religion and politics. Perhaps the ending is a litttle cheesy.
* ***Great Expectations*, Dickens**. The plot doesn't strike me as terribly original, but I quite liked the character development and idiosyncrasies as well as the writing style. 
* ***A Farewell to Arms*, Hemingway**. Because life isn't sad enough already. I ought to read more Hemingway. I could fall for the way the words are strung together alone.
